# pytest-factory
pytest-factory creates a test environment for your service using decorators on 
test classes/methods to generate configurable and reusable test doubles. it accomplishes this
by monkeypatching the system-under-test (SUT) (as little as possible), its environment
variables, and the packages it uses to connect with its depended-on-components (DOC).

DOC packages supported:
* requests
* smtplib
* aiohttp

SUT packages supported:
* tornado

Requires python >= 3.7 and pytest >= 7.x.x

## example
given a tornado application app.py:
```python
# app.py  
# see tests/test_http/passthru_app.py for a more complex example
import requests

from tornado.ioloop import IOLoop
from tornado.web import RequestHandler, Application


class MainHandler(RequestHandler):
    async def get(self):
        resp = requests.get(url='https://www.world.com/hello')
        self.write(resp.content)


def make_app():
    return Application([
        (r"/", MainHandler),
    ])


if __name__ == "__main__":
    app = make_app()
    app.listen(8888)
    IOLoop.current().start()

```

```python
# conftest.py  
# see tests/confest.py for a working example
pytest_plugins = ["pytest_factory.framework.pytest"]

```

```ini
; config.ini  
; see tests/config.ini for full documentation and example
[tests]
requests = pytest_factory.monkeypatch.requests
tornado = pytest_factory.monkeypatch.tornado
imports = requests, tornado
```

```python
# test.py  
# see tests/test_http/test_http.py for a more complex example
import pytest
from pytest_factory import mock_http_server
from pytest_factory.monkeypatch.tornado import tornado_handler

from app import MainHandler

pytestmark = pytest.mark.asyncio


@mock_http_server(method='get', url='https://www.world.com/hello', response='blah blah')
@tornado_handler(sut_callable=MainHandler, method='get')
class TestClass:
    async def test_a(self, store):
        resp = await store.sut.run_test()
        assert resp.body.decode() == 'blah blah'

    @mock_http_server(method='get', url='https://www.world.com/hello', response='Hello, world!')
    async def test_b(self, store):
        resp = await store.sut.run_test()
        assert resp.body.decode() == 'Hello, world!'

```

## features
### Tornado application back-end testing
currently, the component under test must be a tornado RequestHandler.

a test suite can define either a single RequestHandler in its settings.py or
different RequestHandler classes at the test class or function level.

### pytest plugin
pytest drives the tests and pytest-factory is a pytest plugin. 
see pytest_factory.framework.pytest

### what is a factory?
a factory is a decorator that creates test doubles and puts them in a Store. the decorator modifies a pytest
TestClass or test_method_or_function. test doubles can be functions that map inputs to outputs. the Store is
unique to each test method and can be accessed from a pytest fixture called "store". the Store records any
inputs and outputs to the Store during the test in its "messages" property.

#### decorators
pytest-factory factories are decorators, which are executed
during test collection to create the test doubles for the test being collected.
these factories can be applied to test classes, methods and functions, enabling the
user to make their test double code DRY.

#### included factories
pytest-factory comes with several factories:
- mock_http_server - creates a fake http service DOC
- tornado_handler - creates a fake Tornado RequestHandler SUT

see pytest_factory.framework.factory.make_factory to create your own.

### test writer
given a session recording (see pytest_factory.lifecycle.recording), generated by instrumentation, you can use
pytest_factory.lifecycle.writer to write a unit test that reproduces that session, including exceptions raised. as of
now the Writer is not yet a deployable service. additionally, it will need a de-duplication service middleware.
this feature will be spun off as a separate project at some point in the future.
see tests.test_lifecycle for examples of usage.

## future dev
listed in order of increasing complexity:

### proper capitalization
the original developer of this project is lazy about capitalization. please help!

### package versioning
currently manually set in setup.py

### support for ftplib
see pytest_factory/monkeypatch/smtplib for an example

### session recording deduplicator
a service that sits between the instrumentation (or OpenTelemetry Collector) and
test writing service (and/or support notification service) so that multiple incidents
of the same issue only result in one new test case (or notification).

### session recording repository
in online mode, useful to look up known responses from various dependencies for 
testing and research purposes.
in offline mode, records test runs to detect unintended changes in simulated
requests/responses over time

### test writing as a service

### support for other python web frameworks
someone familiar with those frameworks will need to write something equivalent
to pytest_factory.monkeypatch.tornado. examples include: django, flask, fastapi

### support for other languages/frameworks
support for non-python frameworks like golang, js/node and ruby/rails.